---
title: The beginning I have
date: "2020-05-28"
description:
language: english
layout: post
category: blog
tags:
  - metawriting
---

The first line is the hardest one. Thus, write about it.

It has recently come to my attention how much small blogs and authors influenced me in numerous aspects. Now it is also compelling myself to start writing for real. It must be said, unfortunately, that I've been wasting a lot of time with configurations and styling instead of actually "putting language down on paper". 

Yesterday, I read [on this medium post](https://medium.com/better-marketing/i-will-teach-you-how-to-make-your-first-10-000-from-writing-51e7830185c8) that it would take me about 60 days to create a writing habit ✍🏻, so here I am starting it. I have no experience whatsoever in blogging, but trying couldn't hurt, could it? 🤷🏼‍♂️

First of all, I do not excel at writing and english is not my native language, so this might be tough for me to accomplish (and for you to read). Besides, this is supposed to be entirely spontaneous. The only plan is to get to my computer everyday and write a little bit. You don't need to tell me I could be doing this on Twitter, Medium or even Facebook. It's just that I want this to be something random and maybe even personal. 

I believe there is something special about doing something everyone can see (it's on the internet for God's sake!), yet they don't (this site doesn't even show up on Google - yet).

Anyway, this here was nothing but some random practice. I will probably turn it into some sort of "personal column" where I write thoughts, opinions, routines and ideas, and, if you're reading this, I hope you're enjoying it 🤩.
