---
date: "2020-06-19"
description:
language: english
layout: post
tags:
  - metawriting
title: It's gonna be a long, long time 🎵
---


<Thumbnail 
   src="blog/images/nasa-unsplash.jpg" 
   alt="astronaut in spacesuit floating in space" 
   author={{ name: "NASA" , href: "https://unsplash.com/@nasa" }} 
/>

You all remember well when I said I would try to write every single day for 60 days, right? **I bring some news: it's hard.**

I had this idea: to take 4-5 hours a day to write a post and finish it within a week. Simple enough, right? I thought it so...

Initially, I build up a plan with all the subjects I'd like to cover! Good idea, but I had enough topics to **write a book**, not a blog post. It took me two weeks of writing and I couldn't even get to half of it 😅.

As I further dedicate myself to the glorious art of writing (sarcasm 🙃), I discover how tricky it is as well. At least I can share my experience with you.

1. 🟢 **Planning**
   - planning the subjects I should cover was a very good idea.
   - **I kept focus between writing pauses.**
   - **I had a broader sense of the whole text.**
2. 🔴 **Feasibility**
   - elaborating the plan took me a **whole day**, but executing it would take me a **whole month**.
   - **don't make it perfect**
   - planning too much is **idealization**.
3. 🔵 **Plan in steps**
   - divide the text into simpler _subposts_.
   - focus on one _subposts_ at a time.
   - the _subposts_ have to be finished within a week.
   - split the plan and then split it again.
4. 🔵 **Planning should forsee my motivation.**

   - having a blog is an **endless task**: I am the only one to **set the limit**.
   - On my last post, I was excited on the first week, but kind of lost the thrill on the second week because it felt endless. That's why I believe that the plan for the next week should be done with this mindset: _"where can I get by monday if I dedicate 3 hours everyday this week"_ instead of _"I need to dedicate 3 hours per day to get this post done by the end of the week"_. There is a big difference.
   - **plan to yourself, not to the post**

5. 🟢 **Routine**

   - I don't like routine a lot, but I confess it helped me with the last post. Every weekday now I wake up, make my bed, have breakfast, brush my teeth and take a shower before going to the computer. I'd like to add exercises and meditation to this as well, but more about this on the future. After this simple morning routine, I definitely feel like I can get more focus and get _in the zone_ easier.
   - _I do it whenever I can_ did not work. Now, I try to deal with this blog just like a job: from 9AM until 5PM with a 2 hour break. This really helps me stay motivated on the long run.

6. 🔵 **Weekends**

   > Relaxing is unstructured whereas focusing is planed, Cal Newport

   - The quote is from the [Deep Work](https://www.calnewport.com/books/deep-work/) book. I am going to try to do work on the site next weekend.
   - structure the weekend and the pauses too.

I feel like I learned a lot with the previous experience. There are still other things to be considered and enhancements to be made, but I am content with how things are going for now. Soon this might start to get some traction.
