---
date: 2024-12-08
layout: single
tags:
title: How living abroad can CHANGE how you view life (What I learned after 2 years in Japan)
---

Moving to another country is often a dream for many: the lure of new cultures, landscapes, and personal growth. But turning this dream into reality comes with its own set of challenges and rewards. As someone who's lived in Japan for two years and been away from my hometown for a decade, I want to share what I went through and why this path can transform your life for the better.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/KxBu55KtOAo?si=CrHYT1kN9ypGMRKQ" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

First, one key realization is that you're integrating into a society, not just visiting. This means immersing yourself in the culture, understanding the people, and, crucially, learning the language. Many might find learning a new language daunting and decide it's not for them. But making even a small effort can significantly enhance your experience while also improving your sense of belonging. It's not about grand gestures: sometimes, a simple willingness to engage is enough to make you feel part of the community.

In that sense, The feeling of loneliness can strike hard when you're away from the usual environment, especially if the local language is foreign to you. My experience taught me there are others who feel the same and one can alleviate this sensation by connecting with people who share your interests. Whether through university clubs or online platforms like Meetup, social groups can provide a sense of belonging and purpose. Meeting new friends can redefine your perception of what it means to live abroad.

However, moving overseas doesn't mean severing ties with loved ones left behind. Your family and friends will undoubtedly miss you, and reaching out to them should be a priority. Regular calls will not only help you feel less isolated but will also reassure them of your well-being. Remember, keeping those connections alive can greatly ease the emotional transition of living in a new land.

In the end, no place on earth is perfect. Every country has its flaws, its challenges, and its own set of problems, so **you will be disappointed**. However, it's important to understand that being in an imperfect place doesn't negate the value of your decision to move. Acknowledging the imperfections reminds you that you are in a real place that offers the potential to grow and make a difference.

## Why then?

Living abroad challenges you to rethink your identity, perceptions, and the world around you. It's an opportunity for growth. While I can't promise you will be happier or wealthier, I can assure this journey will change you.